this next knot is the one that many
people consider B to be the hardest and
basically you're going to take your
backing here which is pretty small and
you're going to connect it to your fly
line which is relatively large this is
probably about five weight fly line now
if you just made an overhand knot it
wouldn't do you any good because you're
going up with a really large knot that
wouldn't want to slide through the
guides and would be problematic you need
to make one that's going to be smooth
and the best way to do that is to create
a nail knot now for a nail lot you're
actually going to need to make a little
tool here you can use a bobbin threader
which comes with a lot of fly tying kits
or you can just use a loop of relatively
thick monofilament I find this to be a
little easier because it's pretty
slippery doesn't tend to bind as much
now in order to do this you're going to
want to start with the fly line in your
left hand if you're right-handed so take
your fly line put in your left hand take
your loop place it in your left hand and
pinch them together so they both go the
same direction the idea here is that
you're eventually going to have to pull
that way so you need the loop to be
going this way or you won't be able to
pull the right direction then take your
backing and in this case you're just
going to go ahead and pull off about
four inches or so and pinch about
halfway back place the four-inch pinch
right there in your left hand and go
ahead and pinch them all together at
once that's going to leave a tag of
backing here which is dropping down and
what you're going to do is you're going
to actually wrap that tag over the top
one pinch to pinch three four and five
times and it really helps to keep these
things stacked up correctly so if you
can see I'll make sure those wraps are
actually in line and I'm not wrapping
them over themselves now your fifth time
and five is usually the magic number you
can go ahead and pull this tag up and
around and get this loop where you can
pass the tag through the loop in order
to pass the tag through the loop you
might need to kind of tweak it a little
bit here but just get it to where you
can get that tag through pull the tag
down okay now you've got everything
pinched and you're going to start to
work from the back of this loop you may
actually want to transfer the pinch to
the right hand at this point so go back
here to where your loop or your tag of
monofilament sticks out and begin to
pull now what this is going to do is
actually going to pull the
tag and through the loops you made it
out to the other side but as you can see
you've got this little loop at the rear
of what would be your running line so it
makes a little sense sometimes to go
ahead and tighten that up to see you
have a nice even thing to pull against
once you've got it in position still
maintaining the pinch go ahead and pull
with the monofilament to slide the tag
all the way through and when you release
the pinch if you did everything right it
all ought to be pretty well stacked up
if it's just a little bit loose like it
is here just tighten it up and then to
set it just pull tightly on both ends of
the backing and then to really get it to
bite pull on the line in the backing at
the same time okay at this point you've
got a nice even straight connection and
all you need to do is trim up very
tightly against both knots now the
easiest way obviously to trim these up
is going to be with tie scissors if
you've got some that are fairly sharp
let's go ahead and pull it up I like to
tie it I like to cut it on a slight bias
here so that as it slides to the guides
it'll have an angle to pull against and
then obviously going to want to do the
same thing on the other side so turn
that over this one can be a little
tricky because backing likes to fray
especially waxed backing so it might
help to go ahead and get a hold of the
back and kind of draw it over the
scissors so you get a really nice tight
fit
I need some sharper scissors done I okay
at this point you're done this knot is
connected it's tight and it's pretty
strong basically this knot is about as
strong as the coating of the line is
bonded to the line itself now that's not
as strong as the break strength of the
line but I mean hey people land tarpon
on it so you know it's got to be okay
all right